README.md, before:

# openGov

## Introduction 

The internet age calls for governments to change the way they operate and disseminate information. From day to day working reports to the statistical data collected. It's important to make all these datasets public and readily available for both academic research and non governmental oversight organizations. 

In the recent times government agencies and leaders are making an effort to make all relevant data public and accessible to their citizens. In order to maximize the benefits of these efforts further correspondence with the data consumers and the government is necessary. This direct feedback when coupled with open standards, software and formats would not only revolutionize the way governments are run but also greatly augment their accountability and the citizen's ability to get the most out of their government.

## Datasets

Each of the documents on the repository tries to outline the open data requirements for one particular office/ administrative unit of the government. Each of these documents has two parts, a requirements section which specifies the various datasets that should be made availiable by the administrative unit and an outline of the open standard that will be used to specify how the data should be formatted and distributed.

## Primary Objective

The primary objective of this repository is to form a public forum where citizens can collaborate and create a pool of guidelines. These guidelines can be used for developing software which increase the transparency of the government or those which publish data for public consumption.

## Philosophy 

- Keeping the entire process open ensuring that the change is the result of a community effort.
- Keep things simple, try to itemize everything and keep requirements and standards atomic without requiring references.
- Make branches and use 'markup' documents for all documentation.
- Create issues to propose changes to documentation structure and style.
- Keep in mind that all data should be easily consumable by computers.(be specific about metadata, markup , data depth and publishing models)

## References

Please be sure to refer References.md [openGov/References.md] to browse all the current references that are being used and feel free to add more references that are relevant to the project.

Commit message:

Added Getting Started section to Readme.md

README.md, after:

# openGov

## Introduction 

The internet age calls for governments to change the way they operate and disseminate information. From day to day working reports to the statistical data collected. It's important to make all these datasets public and readily available for both academic research and non governmental oversight organizations. 

In the recent times government agencies and leaders are making an effort to make all relevant data public and accessible to their citizens. In order to maximize the benefits of these efforts further correspondence with the data consumers and the government is necessary. This direct feedback when coupled with open standards, software and formats would not only revolutionize the way governments are run but also greatly augment their accountability and the citizen's ability to get the most out of their government.

## Datasets

Each of the documents on the repository tries to outline the open data requirements for one particular office/ administrative unit of the government. Each of these documents has two parts, a requirements section which specifies the various datasets that should be made availiable by the administrative unit and an outline of the open standard that will be used to specify how the data should be formatted and distributed.

## Primary Objective

The primary objective of this repository is to form a public forum where citizens can collaborate and create a pool of guidelines. These guidelines can be used for developing software which increase the transparency of the government or those which publish data for public consumption.

## Philosophy 

- Keeping the entire process open ensuring that the change is the result of a community effort.
- Keep things simple, try to itemize everything and keep requirements and standards atomic without requiring references.
- Make branches and use 'markup' documents for all documentation.
- Create issues to propose changes to documentation structure and style.
- Keep in mind that all data should be easily consumable by computers.(be specific about metadata, markup , data depth and publishing models)

## Getting Started (for new git/non technical users)

1. Create a Github.com Account
2. Login with your Account and click on the 'Fork' button on the top right corner. This creates a copy of the repository on your account which can then be modified by you.
3. Make the appropriate changes on your copy of the repository:
 - Create a file : Click on the '+' link in the 'openGov/+' to create a new file. You can copy the text in the 'Template' file on the repository to get the current format. Be sure to name your files with a .md extension.
 - Edit a file : Click on the file you want to edit. Click on the edit button 'Small Pencil' for github.com to open the in built editor.
 - Save Changes : Every edit/new file has to be commited to the repository. Commiting requires you to press the commit button and allows you to write a small description of the changes you have made as comments (github suggests placeholder comments by default).
4. All the operations specified above are done on your copy of the repository. To push all the changes you make to the repository you need to create a 'Push' request which will inform the admins of this repository of the changes that are made and will allow the admin to add the changes made to be merged into the main repository.

## References

Please be sure to refer References.md [openGov/References.md] to browse all the current references that are being used and feel free to add more references that are relevant to the project.
